well the head of the agency that's
Philip lazarini says the move is more
Collective punishment inflicted on the
people of Gaza in a statement and
mentioned the ruling by the
international court of justice ordering
Israel to take immediate action to make
sure that Palestinians have their basic
needs met it warned that that is only
possible if unua as the largest Aid
agency in Gaza is allowed to do its work
Israel has said it wants to get rid of
from the Gaza Strip the agency said it
would be immensely irresponsible to
sanction it for the alleged actions of a
small number of its staff especially at
a time when so many people are displaced
and are in desperate need of help let's
take this on I'm pleased to say we have
Chris gunnis who's a former spokesman
who joins us on Skype from London and
Chris before we get into this briefly I
just want to try and understand how inw
funding works because it is funded
almost entirely by voluntary contrib
butions from UN member countries so when
Nations say they are temporarily pausing
additional funding what exactly does
that mean additional to what does it
does it mean that all funding is
paused well it means that the
humanitarian work which is the work
that's immediately been done in Gaza as
the commissioner General pH has made
perfectly clear is now under threat unra
is saying that it has funding to deliver
these life-saving services for just a
matter of weeks perhaps a month after
which the food distributions the medical
the fuel the water all of the housing
that unra has been given to a million
displaced people in its shelters across
the G strip all of that is under threat
but perhaps more important in terms of
the funding what we're actually seeing
is a coordinated political attack on
unra the Israelis have made clear
Israeli former official has actually
said that we cannot we being the
Israelis cannot win the war in Gaza
unless unra is disbanded so you know
what clearer signal do you want so the
volun contributions as you say they have
to be increased massively my message to
the Arab world is particularly the gulf
is where are you because they're making
billions all the time each day on oil
revenues a tiny fraction of those oil
revenues would see unr's financial
problems disappear overnight and this
unconscionable Gap in fing which has
been inflicted by these Western
governments that would be filled very
very quickly so yes the funding is
desperate yes humanitarian services are
under threat some of the most desperate
people in the Middle East are now facing
starvation they're facing famine and the
Arab states need to step up the plate so
tell us Chris if you would what unra
funding actually does what does it
provide and what would the will the
impact be of you know within a month as
you say those major funders uh
withdrawing their contributions what
would the impact be it's a matter of
life and death is
it yes well put simply um and very
simply there are two main funding
streams in unra there are the core
Services the core budget um and that
goes mainly to a huge education
department unra educates over half a
million children across the Middle East
Syria Jordan the West Bank um Gaza um so
there five of those fields in Lebanon um
so don't just think of unra as being in
Gaza unra is providing these life-
saving and humanitarian human
development services across the Middle
East but then there's the emergency
budget so you know anra is doing these
core Services which in times of Peace it
can get on with but then suddenly
there's an emergency like we've got
today in Gaza Andra has basically to
carry on trying to maintain these core
Services which is a huge responsibility
in and of itself while suddenly having
to deal with all these other these other
problems I say problems I mean there's a
an a genocide taking place um in Gaza so
that that's the real problem for onra
that in times of Peace its core Services
would be you know ticking over although
under real Financial strain but it keeps
having to turn its hand to deal with
these emergency situations as we're now
seeing in Gaza and that's the real
problem for the agency but to make clear
this isn't a funding crisis this is an
existential crisis brought on by a
coordinated political attack being
driven by Israel make no mistake about
that all right I'll come on to that in a
sec but when you say it's not a funding
crisis so I'm a bit confused within a
month won't be that serious F crisis but
fueled by political considerations right
okay so Israel as you know says un
perpetuates the refugee crisis obstructs
peace and serves as a civilian arm of
Hamas what do you say to
that a state which is waging what the
icj is and it says is a suspected
genocide for that government that state
to accuse unra a h agency of
perpetuating the conflict seems somewhat
problematic to accept um but let let's
let's be clear about this um that
accusation is part of an Israeli dream
that by getting rid of unra you will
suddenly get rid of the Palestine the 6
million Palestine refugees we serve that
is not true what perpetuates this Refuge
problem is the lack of the parties
particularly Israeli obstructionism to
allow the Palestinians to have their own
State because let's be clear the
Palestine Refugee problem un's mandated
responsibilities towards these people is
grounded in that problem that would go
away if the refugees are granted all of
their rights within the context of a
two-state solution all of those rights
including the right of return all of
those would be resolved if we could move
towards a just and durable solution in
the context I don't know whether people
want to say one state two State no
States take your pick but it's got to be
a durable solution at that point when
the Israelis in particular but also the
Palestinians get together and resolve
the overall crisis the Palestine Refugee
problem will be resolved in the context
of that that is when they will be given
a just and durable solution and at that
point unra can pack up its bags and go
it is the lack of that Solution that's
perpetuating the crisis not anything to
do with onra Chris we'll leave it there
thanks for that Chris gunnes former and
Royal spokesman thank
you